EXPERT: Josh Braun
TITLE: How to Create and Scale a Cold Email Prospecting Strategy
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdtLIUmGkXs

Coming up on today's episode of The Sales Leadership Show. Yeah, so the biggest mistake I think sales leaders make is letting people start sending emails when they first start at a company. All right, so if you have Sally's emails and you are getting um, you know, 15, 20% positive response rate or 15% positive response rate and you're cold calling people and you're connecting 6% of the time and 18% of those connects are turning into booked meetings, absolutely turn this podcast off and call Will and tell him what you're doing. So, with regards to calls, we have to set benchmarks as to what good is with everything that we do. Um, otherwise we don't know. So, what is good with regards to benchmarks and then of course what is good with regards to a cold call? Hello Sales Nation, my name is Will Barron and I'm the host of The Sales Leadership Show. On today's episode, we have Josh Braun. He is the author of The Badass B2B Growth Guide, which you can find over at joshbraun.com. On today's episode, Josh is sharing how we can scale, monitor, and refine cold email and cold call outreach, not just for individual contributors, individual sales people, but across a team no matter how big or small it is. Everything that we talk about in this episode is available in the show notes over at salesleadership.org. And with that said, let's jump right into it. Josh, welcome to The Sales Leadership Show. Thanks for having me on, Will. I'm glad to have you on, sir. Okay, so today's episode, we're not just going to get into cold outreach, cold email specifically, I think with uh with your expertise on here, Josh. I want to get into how we manage cold email outreach and cold out prospect outreach in general via uh via an entire sales team as opposed to being an individual contributor. So, with that, I'm going to ask you a massively leading and loaded question here that will set the scene for the rest of the conversation. Should there be Is this conversation just mute or should there be a succinct uh strategy across an entire sales team from the sales leadership perspective uh with regarding to cold outreach and getting our team on the same page with it. Now Will, if I can't answer the question, can I phone a friend or do a 50/50 or I just take my best shot at it? who the friend is. That will determine the success of the rest of this episode. Okay. All right, good. So Josh, should should there be a succinct strategy for sales leadership with cold emails? Or should we just let individual contributors just send what they like when they like? Yeah, so the biggest mistake I think sales leaders make is letting people start sending emails when they first start at a company. And so what I recommend as step one of the strategy, and I do believe there should be a strategy, is to have sales people interview customers. And the reason I'm saying that is that most sales people have never done the job of the person that they're reaching out to. And because they've never done the job of the person that they're reaching out to, they may be relying on marketing messages or their own gut to be able to say things that quite frankly are misaligned with how buyers actually think and talk. And so if you're not able to join the conversation specifically in their mind, there's this disconnect. And the cause of that is that the sales people, SDRs, are not close to the people that they're actually prospecting. It also makes them very nervous because they're barking at print, I call it. And when I was a kindergarten teacher, we'd have kids that would be able to read fluently, but then you'd ask them comprehension questions and then they have no idea. So they're they're using words like optimize, 360-degree view, end-to-end solution. These really generic words that don't stand out. So step one, interviewing five customers, um using an approach called jobs to be done. It's a framework that allows you to understand all of the dominoes that tipped over that actually caused someone to fire their existing thing and hire the new thing. That's going to form the basis of your messaging. Um and what I recommend sales leaders do is they create a little spreadsheet. Couple columns. Spreadsheet column number one is what's the job that this person's trying to get done? What sucks before they give you money? Specifically. What's the impact of that? Like why does that suck so bad? What changes for the better after they give you the money? In the customer's words. And if every rep just interviewed five or seven customers, they'd just get a better handle on that. So that to me is step one of the of the approach and a step that's often missed because it's easy to start sending out emails. So that sounds like a lot of effort, Josh. Can we not just get Barry's emails, hold the get sort of like what works, give it to Sally, and then just get us spamming the market instead? Yeah, we could do that if those emails were working really well. Um you know, a 15-20% positive response rate or 15% positive response rate, and you're cold calling people and you're connecting 6% of the time, and 18% of those connects are turning into booked meetings, absolutely uh turn this podcast off and call Will and tell him what you're doing. Um but if you're not, if that's not working or you don't have a way to measure it, um and you're sending lots and lots of emails and you're not getting the responses that you want or you're picking up the phone and you're hearing I'm not interested far too many times or reps feel the call is that the phone's a cactus, they're afraid to pick it up, um then you want to actually back up a little bit and move away from templates. Um move away from searching for stuff and sending out a lot of things because what ends up happening is you burn out your addressable market. You may get two or three or one and a half percent response rates, but what you don't realize is you're you're actually pissing off, you know, 98% um of your people, which is why a lot of these outsourced SDR firms don't last that long. Um they'll achieve a lot of success at the first of blast thousands of people, but then after a couple months that's over with and that sort of stops. Um so, that's the reason you know, you might not want to just rely on what's already in place if it's not performing well. Do you I want to get on to what is success in a second cuz that's clearly it needs to be measurable for us to to win at this game. But, have you you don't need to name clients or or organizations or or anything like that, but have you experienced have you seen first hand an addressable market being burnt out? Cuz I talk about this all of the time on multiple of the podcasts that we do. Nobody believes me that it's possible to do so, but just common sense suggests that if you do something for long enough that it pisses off enough people, you're not just you're going to ruin the brand of the organization you represent, but they're just not going to get back to you as an individual contributor and they're not going to then respond to you as a sales leader either. Yeah, so yeah, so so John Jensen is the VP of North American sales for Alteryx, which is a you know, publicly traded company. And when we first started talking uh through no fault of his own or through the reps, everyone was trying to do the best that they can. Um they have these acceleration tools that allows you to step on the gas. Um like Salesforce or Salesloft and and Outreach. Um and they were sending uh tons of generic um messages the best way they knew how uh using templates and and just going for a quantity based um approach. Um and what they realized was that their response rates were not where they needed to be and when they did get responses, um they were um a little off-putting. Uh not positive. Um so, what John did is he actually created something called the value capture spreadsheet. It was kind of genius what he did um because Alteryx is complicated. They have lots of different people that they sell to with lots of different problems. But, he created an Excel spreadsheet and the Excel spreadsheet was this is what sucked before And this is what changed for the better and he actually interviewed customers. So what you heard was the actual customer language by theme. And so reps could actually see this specific language. Now this is not marketing language. It's a little bit different. Um mark nothing against marketing but marketing language just tends to have a spin on it. They say things like ROI and streamline and optimize. It's not how people talk. And so this language was crispy or specific and we used that to be able to message. And we were able to increase the amount of meetings that they booked by 3x just by doing that primarily over email and through the call. Just that simple idea. Um how you use that stuff we could certainly talk about if it's the you know if it's helpful but people skip that step. And when they skip that step what ends up happening is the messaging is generic. You know, we help you increase this by 55% we're the best. Um of course you're going to say that you have commission breath. It's just not how people talk. So it's the crispy and specific nature in the your customers are better at writing emails than you are. You just have to be able to get that language out of them and and leverage it. Cool. We'll come back to messaging in a second cuz clearly you feel that's important. But let's just touch on this before we gloss over it cuz this might be the starting point. Are there rules for success here in that should we be looking at and you've disqualified this already open rate and reply rate cuz if we're getting a lot's negative replies people telling us to bugger off then clearly we're not having success even though the numbers might not might look fantastic. Or is success perhaps calls booked in or is it all can we with the modern tools can we go all the way to deals closed? What should we be doing to to judge whether our cold outreach is being successful or it's just a waste of time? Yeah, let's talk about calls first and then we'll talk about email. So with regards to calls we have to set benchmarks as to what good is. With everything that we do. Um otherwise, we don't know. So, what is good with regards to benchmarks? And then, of course, what is good with regards to a cold call? What is good with regards to a discovery call? What is good with regards to an email? Often times, when sales leaders come to me and they say, "Our people suck at writing emails. They suck on the phone." I say, "Well, do they know what good is? And do you know what good is?" And often times, the answer is no. When we were in high school, well, you probably remember when we had to write a paper, our English teacher said, "Here's the rubric. This is what your paper has to look like in order for you to score fives in each of these categories." And yet, in sales, we don't do that. So, with regards to cold calls, one of the first things we want to take a look at is connect rate. Meaning, the percentage of time I actually connect with the intended target. And that has to be around 5 and 1/2 to 6%. At the At the lower side. If you're below that, um perhaps your target market can't be reached over the phone. Perhaps your target market Perhaps your database needs to be updated. Perhaps you need to look at other providers, etc. I like to see a 5% connect rate. Um and then, when we're actually on the call, if we take a look at the cold call, you could think of the cold call as having four parts. Most cold calls do. They have a four-part thing. You can actually start to measure the drop-off if you use dispositions between the opening, part two, part three, and part four. So, someone picks up the phone and they say, "Hello." And you say, "Hey, well, you're probably going to hate me cuz this is a cold call. Do you want to hang up or roll the dice?" And what we want to see there, and there's 15,000 openers. Don't Please don't write, "Well, that opener sucked." We realize there's 20 openers. Whatever your opener is, you want to measure it. And 85% of the time, we want a neutral or positive reaction to that opening. Like a funnel. So, we're going to measure that at 85 If that thing dips below 85, is it your tonality? Do we want to change the script? Do we want to say something like, "Hey, well, this is Josh. We've never met, but I I was hoping you could help me out for a moment." We want to test that. We want to get that at 85%. Then we're going to go to part two, and we want that at 70% etc. etc. etc. So, we want to take a look at how that is converting down, and you could just have set up dispositions to be able to track that in Salesforce. You can have like a little funnel. Um People always measure meeting book rate. Of course, connected meeting book rate is important, and I like to see that at about 15 to 18% as a benchmark as a team. Um but also I like positive talk time. Um What I mean by positive talk time is there's rapport and back and forth on the call even though the meeting wasn't booked. What that tells me is that although it didn't book now, it might book one day, and the rep shouldn't be penalized for that because they didn't book the meeting. They planted a really great seed. Sure. So, I also measure positive sentiment, positive rapport on the calls evidence by talk time. If the call went on for 5 or 6 minutes, it was positive. The rep was asking really great illumination questions, and the prospect was sharing a lot of information. They were telling a lot of truth. They just weren't ready to commit for for whatever reason. Um I think the rep should get credit for that. So, positive sentiment is another one I like to measure. Cool. Like So, there's there's three things to go at here. Um some some some of this is objective, but it will be subjective for the audience in the it will depend on how big the organization is, how many reps they have, who they're trying to reach. So, when you say we're looking for the 8% of XYZ how just as a rough guide here cuz there there will be math to make things statistically significant, which we don't need to go into. Is this 8% if we're experimenting on 100 calls, 1,000 calls, seven calls? How many calls do we need to do to make a number at least somewhat valid? 100 connections. So, 100 connections with the intended target. So, the intended target is not a executive assistant. The intended target is not a I hate this term, but everyone uses it, gatekeeper. Um 100 conversations with the people that you intended to call, and there's obviously technology out there that can accelerate that. Technology like ConnectAndSell, and there's a bunch of them out there that can help you have more conversations per minute. Um but yeah, obviously not three calls. 100 is a really good benchmark to be able to start to get statistically significant data where you can actually start to test scripts and tonality. Sure. And this leads me to Also, sometimes I've also see some pe- sometimes people also Something else that I see a lot that might seem um blatantly obvious is sometimes people are not strategic about the accounts that they select and the four or five people within those accounts that they select. And so, they're not calling best fit. There's always a subset of accounts that are the best fit. And they're not calling the people that have this specific job. And so, sometimes a low connect rate, low connect to conversion rate is great script, great messaging, wrong company, wrong person. Let's make the assumption, Josh, just cuz the if we go through every step I'm happy to talk to you for 5 hours, but we will literally be here for hours. Let's Let's make the assumption that we've got good data and we're calling the right people at the right time. Not necessarily the right time in the sales cycle, but you know, within a reasonable moment. So, we're not skewing the data with perfect answers and dials and and and and terrible ones. So, 100 perfect nice round number we can work on. Now, this leads me on to the second thing I was going to query with you. Is that 100 people Is that 100 calls across the team or is that 100 calls per individual? Yeah, so I want to be very clear. Not a Not 100 calls. 100 connects. Yeah, so connects, so actually have the conversation. Um that would be for the team. Sure. So, how important then is it to spread this across the team versus uh just pull data from Well, we know Barry, Mary, and Sally are our best reps. If we can get them working, we can trickle this down to perhaps the slightly lower performing reps. Is Is that a strategy or should we do this across the team so that the data is more accurate um from an organizational standpoint? Yeah, so it's very easy once you have these dispositions set up to create dashboards in Salesforce. And if everyone's using the same script and if everyone's been trained on tonality and everyone's been trained on diffusing objections then what you can do is actually start to coach to good. And so you spread this out across the whole team and you can see individual connect conversion rate statistics and you can also see it for the team. And is if Mary is converting at 19% or 22% and everybody else is converting at nine well, we want to we can now delve into that. Is it her tonality? Is she actually dialing more? Does she have better leads? Uh is she deviating off the script? If so, what is she doing differently so we can actually update it for the rest of the team. But you have to have those benchmarks and those scripts in place and absolutely distribute it throughout the whole team so you can actually coach people that are maybe not hitting the mark and give praise to people that are Sure. And on the final point on this before I I let you loose. I feel like you you there's things you want to continue with Josh. How much um clearly this depends on size of the organization, budgets and other things. But how much do you put how much belief do you put in self-reported data from someone to say for example, this was a positive conversation even though it was 6 minutes long which is uh objective. How much data do you put on that versus using a tool like Gong or Chorus to use AI to calculate some of this before? I I love I love tools like Gong or Chorus. If you have them, use them. They're excellent tools for exactly what we're talking about. If you don't have them you can either have people self-report it using dispositions and then you can monitor the calls. Um something else that I've done is I've created something called a call of fame where you can actually put great calls that are examples of what good is, positive conversations so people can listen to them. I have found that once people know what good is and they've heard it in the call of fame, people are good. Um they're honest. I I very rarely see anybody submitting a call that's good into the hall of call of fame that's not. They kind of know what it is, especially if they know it's going to be in there. And so, I've never had a problem with people being um you know, not true. Sure. And and how is all this uh you know, if you're consulting you into an organization, you helping with the cold outreach, how is this uh documented? So, you mentioned the the the call of fame there, which I love. Is this is cuz there might be tools that do some of this, I'm not sure, but how do you document this? Is it a spreadsheet? Um is it saving all of MP3 files and putting it on a a shared internet folder for the the team? How do you go about collating what is good so that even new hires can be on board with it as well like faster later on? Yeah, so the dashboards can be built out by someone that has some sales ops experience. Um there's a guy called Taff Love who does this really well. He builds up really great dashboards that track the cold call flow. Um and then with regards to the call of fame, um you can simply set something up on your intranet where people can click and they can actually listen to, you know, the call of fame calls. Um and once a week listen to a call that went really well and break down why it went well. I don't like that I don't like doing that with calls that didn't go well. It makes people feel bad. I'm much more a fan of positive reinforcement and just a a quick side note, 30-second side note, as you know, Will, I used to teach kindergarten and first grade and third grade. And one of the things I learned pretty quickly when kids wouldn't put away their crayons was saying, "Johnny, put your crayons away. Why didn't you put your crayons away? What Put them away, they're a mess." That just didn't work. What did work was saying things like, "Hey Susie, love how you put your crayons away. You even put the lid on tight and your colors are all in the same spot where they should be." And it's the same thing when you're coaching sales people with this call of fame stuff, like don't focus on the negative stuff. People will rise to the occasion. I've been in these situations where people are ripping into reps. And it's just this it's not it's not productive. Sorry, that was a little sidebar. Sure. And and to double down on this, I'll put this book in the show notes. It's called Don't Shoot called Don't Shoot the Dog or Don't Shoot the Trainer. I'll put it in the show notes. It's a dog training book, but then it applies and uses behavioral psychology to apply all of that to humans. How to the the laws of influence and how that relates to dogs and how it can be translated to humans and how it can be translated to to business and elsewhere as well. It's an amazing read. And it's all about as you described reinforcement? It's like it's based on positive reinforcement or positive reinforcement, yeah. And so as you described then, you know, if a dog is chewing your shoelaces, put a toy in front of it and make the toy more interesting than the shoelaces so it plays with the toy as opposed to telling it off for chewing the shoelaces cuz it doesn't really know what it's being told off for cuz it doesn't understand English. Um but it knows that it wants to play with the toy. So you redirect its attention towards that and eventually it will know to play with the toy cuz that makes you happy as opposed to chewing your shoelaces. That's just one example. But then it translates that into how you can do that with with humans. It uses anecdotes of getting people to wash the dishes and all kinds of stuff. It's it's definitely a recommended read from me. This is why Will has a toy car on his desk. For those of you watching this, just reinforce that in. Well, with that Josh, how I feel like I'm interrupting you slightly and holding you back which is cuz I want cuz I want to clarify things. I think more senior sales leaders would would have would have been able to rattle through this quicker. I'm trying to suck as much from you as possible for my own experience. So with that said, we are doing customer interviews up front. We're getting even like a little bit of a database going of customer language, the messages that they want to be communicated via we can talk in a way that they are going to absorb it and appreciate it without having it an extra layer of translation of of marketing I think you put it more politely than that earlier on. We're then going to do multiple tests with different parts of messaging with different uh elements of messaging and then we're going to use 100 pickups at least so that we've got statistically significant data. What do we do from there? Let's Let's assume that we've got onto something. Something's working. What do we do then? Do we double down on this and just smash the marketplace or do we need to roll this out gradually in case we've got I guess in case I guess it's an an anomaly? Yeah, so I always like to have a seal team in every organization that's always ta- that's a small group, three or four people. Um Google does this well. They have these these little labs where they're doing these experiments and their purpose is always to start trying new stuff um rapidly. So, two-week experiments. We want to try some things that are different phraseology on calls. We want to maybe try using visual images in cold emails. One of the things we're experimenting right now with a lot of people that I coach are these emails that have pictures um under 100k so you give the best chance of getting delivered a before and after. Um I learned this from a guy named Jack Butcher. He does this great Twitter feed called Visualizing Value. Took his course. I'm like immediately connected the dots thinking, "Hey, what would this look like if we actually had to communicate our value in a before and after picture?" Um and so can we experiment with that and see So, this this seal team or you can call them whatever you want is always going to be a small team of experimenters and people love this stuff. Um some of the stuff works and if it doesn't, they're two or two or three-week cycles to experiment with so that's going to be always continuously going on. Um and then the uh people that are actually on the core team um once it's dialed in um are going to always have suggestions on things that they could do to improve it. Um, but yeah, but for the most part it's a it's a it's a grind at that point. It's being able to just do the work consistently, you know, running 5 to 7 miles every day. Um, a lot of times people will find something that works, but they won't do it consistently. And it's the consistency that's going to actually deliver the outcome. The sporadic stopping and starting you just don't get into a flow state. It's So, we were talking about before we could record, goals, 2021 goals. Um, I come across this at the end of last year and I found it has been really valuable for me and our organization so far and just the kind of 6 weeks that we've been implementing it. I think it's from the book Good to Great. I think it's Jim Collins. He talks about the 20-mi march. You go to work, you do your 20 miles, and this is what he find in great companies they do. They're not necessarily sprinting all of the time. They just do 20 miles, they go home. Next day, 20 miles, go home. 20 miles, go home. Is that how is that how we should be framing this up in our mind of that's what success is over not just 6 months, but 10 years, 20 years? You said it much better than than I could have. You know, I can I can give you a quick story. Um, a few years ago I took a masters swim class. Masters is a nice way of saying swim class for old people, like myself. And the class started 6:00 in the morning, which is pretty early. And they when there was like 30 people in the class. It was a 30-day program. And by the end, there were, uh, 12 of us. And this is the same thing that you've probably experienced when you were in college, first year, sort of first semester, lecture halls packed, and by the end it sort of dwindles down. Um, so this idea of being consistent every day, being good every day, a little bit good every day makes you great over the long term, but the consistency is really hard for people because of shiny object syndrome. Um, it's how you finish an Ironman race. It's how you accomplish anything great. I 100% subscribe to that. Um, same thing with the stock market. Uh, people want to trade Bitcoin and do all these things, fine, but like listen to Warren Buffett. It's a slow, methodical, consistent approach. So, I know Warren Buffett I'm going to I'll put it in the note show notes. He's got a quote and it's something like 50 or 60, he was only worth like 5% of what he's worth now. He wasn't that wealthy. It's only that compounding interest over 60 years that made him who well, financially made him who he is, I guess. I mean, look, I mean, it's the same thing with what you do, El. Like you're you're a great example of this, right? The consistency and the quality of your content and your podcast and your curriculum. It's not like you're doing one podcast or one lesson. It's a consistent approach that you do all the that you just do as like you brush your teeth. And this is kind of gets back to building tiny habits. Where the habits that you build is just what you do. And ultimately, those are the things that allow you to achieve your goal. And the journey's the fun part. I often find that when I cross the finish line of an Ironman race or I've hit some revenue goal, it feels good for a little bit, but then that's over. But the journey, when you have the habits, um, that's that's a lifetime. I'm sure you get a tremendous amount of fulfillment out of this habit you've created for yourself of these podcasts. Uh, if I'm being honest, I don't know about fulfillments, but I know and I I was talking about this with a VP over at HubSpot the other day. This idea of, um, I don't I don't know who came up with this. It might have been Jim Collins again. The marketing flywheel of you add enough inertia to something and eventually, you can take your foot off the gas a little bit and it spins down so slowly that then you can put your foot back on and no one's even skipped a beat. So, I'm happy to get my head down with the podcast. Fulfillment levels high, low, it's it's irrelevant cuz I know, for example, I'm getting a dog next week that I can then take my foot off the podcast just slightly and I've got so many kind of wrapped up in the bag that everything keeps ticking over and the world doesn't end. And I find when people are when they do have and I I've been there, Josh. This was This was literally me that I kind of 6 7 years ago. Uh shiny object syndrome is very real, especially when you are, you know, you could be doing this or you could be doing that. And people say, "Well, video messages on LinkedIn are hot right now." And then there's audio message on LinkedIn. Social selling, cold email, cold calling, warm calling, whatever it is. Once we find something that works and we get that flywheel going, that then allows us it gives us the opportunity to try other things because as we try, the flywheel is still spinning and the the greatest companies build multiple flywheels. So, that one one eventually does fail, you've got another to sustain revenue and and keep you going over the longer term, right? Could could could not agree more. I mean, I get uh people all the time that tell me, you know, "How did you get so much reach on LinkedIn and so much engagement? I wrote a post and nothing happened." I'm like, "Yeah, you you got to write more than a post and you got to do it for many months and sometimes many years. And it also has to be good and unique and have and you have to have a a perspective." Um but I think in this era of shiny objects syndrome and this era of speed and distraction, I mean, I have this one I'm trying to learn my guitar. I mean, I know the beginning of like nine songs, the first like eight seconds. I I can't focus. But focus is super important and doing things that are boring and that are just part of your routine is what's going to get you there. So, let me ask you this and we can wrap up the show with this perhaps then, Josh. Let's say everything that we've described or you've you've taught us in this episode of the Sales Leadership Show has gone perfectly and we've got this momentum and our cold emails, our cold calls, we've got the structure, it's all working perfectly. We've got SEAL Team Six working in the background uh reinventing the wheel so that we can What's the saying? Uh we can put ourselves out of business with with new uh new inventions and new this and new that. Realistically, how often you've had a much longer sales career and successful sales career than I have, especially in the leadership side of things. How often does something come along that does stop that flywheel dead? Is shiny object syndrome, what I'm asking here, is it actually a real phenomenon or is it something that we make up cuz we are unable to do that 20-mi march each day just from a lack of discipline? Yeah, this gets back to We talked a little bit about this before we rolled the podcast. We were talking about goals and I think I was making the point that I I don't as I'm getting older especially don't focus on them as much. I've done a tremendous amount of work on learning how to build habits. And there's a great book called Atomic Habits. There's a bunch of stuff BJ Fogg over at Stanford is doing on this. But you can actually program your brain to build habits. We won't get into it on this show. It's another source for the whole other thing. But you can read up on it. Um but if you can start to build habits for yourself through these methods and it's something that you can do, um you won't get as distracted. Because it's like brushing teeth. Like I don't ever get distracted when I brush my teeth. I I don't get distracted when I run. It's just a habit that I built for myself. I don't get distracted when I ride a bike or when I swim um or when I do prospecting or when I write LinkedIn posts because I've read deeply on how to build habits and more importantly how to get away from negative habits that are not as productive. And so like anything else, this can be learned and it's not inherently something that you're going to do by default. We take this stuff for granted, but it's not that the human brain doesn't want to do certain things. Um but you can train the brain to get into this routine. Perfect. Well, we'll wrap up the show with that. Well, I've got one final question, Joshua, before I throw this out you. Uh it's something that I've I've asked everyone that's come on the Sales Leadership Show Show so far. If you could speak to someone, a new sales leader right now. They are 30, 60, 90 days into their job. They've never done any leadership or management in the past. What would be one piece of advice that you'd give them? Level up your listening. Um people have a hunger and a desire to feel heard and understood. Give them the benefit of the doubt. Don't think the worst of them. So, a great resource for that, Will and I have talked about this as well. Carl Rogers is a psychologist that did a tremendous amount of work on how to make people feel heard and understood. And Chris Voss, who's a former FBI negotiator, wrote a great book called Never Split the Difference that has a lot of tactical strategies on how to make people feel heard heard and understood. And everyone has a hunger to feel heard and understood. It's a superpower for getting through to anyone in your personal and professional life. Love it. Well, without Josh, tell us where we can find out more about you. Tell us about the Badass B2B Growth Guide. And uh you've got a podcast. Tell us about the podcast as well. I have a podcast that's not as good as Will's. So, if you If you have to choose between the two, please by all means. So, my podcast is called Inside Selling, not as good as Will's. And my book at joshbraun.com/badass. If you are sending lots of cold emails and not getting a lot of responses or you're getting hung up on on the phone, the Badass Guide helps you be a red X and a see a white circle so you can start more conversations with skeptical prospects. It's joshbraun.com/badass. Amazing, stuff, Will. I'll link to all of that in the show notes to this episode over at salesleadership.org. And without Josh, I you've come on the Salesman Podcast a bunch of times. This is your first appearance on the Sales Leadership Show. I want to thank you for the the time you've shared with Sales Nation over the past few years. And I want to thank you again for joining us on the Sales Leadership Show. Honored to be on, Will. Thanks for having me.
