EXPERT: Kevin Dorsey
TITLE: Why 90% of SDR Teams Fail (and How to Build the 10% That Don't)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVCB224tW6s

Hi everyone, welcome to the head of sales diary podcast. Today we have David on the podcast and before you meet him in person, a few facts. So first, David is the founder of SDR leaders in the US and EMA community. From what I've seen, it has more than 8,000 members, SDR leaders. And this is great. And we're going to speak about more about this today. Uh also David is helping to build the teams. He's running um master classes, playbook sessions, a lot of SDR meetups. I think I don't know like I was following you but this year you have been traveling around the globe with the meetups or the SDR leaders and also David is very passionate about passionate about the future of SDRs in the AIdriven sales world. Is that correct or have I missed something? Uh you now you've got everything perfect. Yeah. Thanks ever so much for having me on. >> Yeah, thank you. And we will start with the first question of why have you decided to start and build and develop the SDR leaders community. >> Yeah, it at his essence our vision is to dictate how the sales development function will look like in 2030. And the reason why is that a lot of leaders, SDR leaders are living on islands physically if you're in the UK, but also uh management wise, and they're not talking to one another. They don't know what they don't know. And there are some incredibly talented uh leaders who are out there and that want to share their expertise and share their knowledge. And there's also people that have just started their leadership career and we want to bring them together. Um >> especially as the sales development function is such a critical component of revenue generating uh re revenue generation all businesses. We really want to ensure that we're elevating this role to be this really integral part and this conduit between marketing and sales on generating revenue. >> And when did you start it? What when was like the first star date or the first meetup? >> Yeah, so we first started uh I I'm really cool. Uh I don't I don't go out for New Year's. Um I was walking my dog on in 2023 of New Year's Eve and I was thinking there isn't a space for SDR leaders in AMIA to really connect with one another. So I thought instead of going partying, I'll create a community. And the goal was if we could help 150 people in a year that would be success. Um we had 100 people join the community in 48 hours and it was like oh okay people actually this is this is a need and we're now at the point where we have 5,000 followers in air. We have thousand people in our Slack community. The Slack community is thriving. it it people are asking questions and getting answers on a daily basis. Um we've already done we did our first in-person meetup in uh May of April of last year. Um and this year we'll have done 46 globally. Uh we're planning >> Oh wow. >> Yeah. It's uh it's a lot. And uh next year we're planning to do about 60 inerson events and also a conference in America as well. >> Hopefully in Belgium. I have been asking you to do this for quite a while. >> I know you have and I'm not ignoring you. It's uh it's coming. Just just give me just give me a bit more time. >> Okay. Okay. Um, speaking about the SDR role, um, if you had to explain it to a person who doesn't know what the role is, can you like give a short maybe three sentences explanation who is an SDR not right now? >> Is the person converting interest and demand and delivering that to people that are going to close deals? That's at its essence. Um, we can have incredible marketing engines that are generating interest in generating demand, but there needs to be somebody and someone to convert that. If we want our marketing team to focus on in developing that interest and developing that demand, we want our uh sales team to convert that into revenue, we need that person in the middle to bring bring that from one business unit to the other. So that's really at its core what one SDR does. >> Can you say that for a person who is only starting his career in sales SDR is the perfect position. Uh I'm biased so yes I would say that um you you have this the the BDR the SDR role is one of the only functions in the in a business where you still have freedom to be creative and to use your your superpowers if it if you if you say um to convert that interest and to convert that demand. Meaning you'll have a goal at the end, but how you get to that goal, you can you can flourish in the skills and strengths that you have. And it also gives you a great basis of understanding how a business works, how a business functions without the pressure of having a legal legal quotota revenue that you have to book per year. Um, so it's a really great learning and development base for for new hires. Mhm. Recently in one of your posts you have said that SDR is the hardest job in sales like many other positions would like would doubt it or you know would challenge the statement. Why do you think so? >> Yeah, because you're on the front line. You're the tip of the spear when it comes to that interest and demand that's been generated by your business. you have it's now about 7 seconds of of of somebody's attention for you to talk to them and then after those 7 seconds you're then you're trying to win another 10 seconds of their of their attention and then you're trying to win another 10 seconds. So you have to build trust or confidence with the person you're talking to at the other end of the line as about why are they going to take a meeting with this random person that's just called you and out of nowhere and with other functions marketing you're it's still critical but you're creating the the brand awareness that they on the sales side they when they get hold of you they kind of know who you are you've kind of created a peing of their interest about why to speak to you. They're all also very difficult. But the BDR and the SDR role is that that tip of the spear of your brand um where rejection is common. And I stand by the my post that I did last week. >> And how do you think the sales leaders or the SDR leaders can help um SDRs to make the job easier? Yeah. So AI has been a blessing, but it's also been a curse. So what we've seen, uh, when I started out as a BDR in 2013, I had a phone, I had Salesforce, and that was it. Um, so my I had to learn uh use cases. I had to learn how to pitch and then I had minimal amount of technology to help me. Now what we've done is in trying to really help enable and and break through noise, we've given people more and more technology, but we're kind of missing that humanto human piece that is critical for talking talking to people. So the way that I always describe is less is more have a lot of the the AI technology on the back end. So your team is just focusing purely on execution >> because you're when things get tough when things start when you've not been able to get through to people you're going to find the path of least resistance to do something that day. So it might be I'm just going to create a list on Zoom info and that could take you 2 hours but really have you been productive literally focusing our BDRs and our SDRs and revenue generating activities >> like taking a look at the AI tools and the way they help us and at the same time they're occurs and this is something I totally agree with. There is a very big trend right now with AI SDRs. Uh many uh like large and smaller companies are developing such tools saying that SDRs will be replaced by AI. What do you think of that? >> Um it's false. It's not going to happen. So um the the long answer is co co has is something that created a a group of people who um haven't yet come they haven't yet come out of it of where they're insular they're by themselves they're lonely and the the pieces that AISDRs have done originally around email that kind of more less personal activity that might have worked more in in the co time when people are just not around in their offices, but people are screaming out for interaction and for talking to humans. And so that's going to be the the the winning SDR team is going to be the ones that use AI technology to help give them more context, more info and insights, but then execute it by having a human talk to a human. that's going to be the real winning combination. >> But can I like a little bit challenge the statement? So let's say now for example with uh cold outreach, I'm a very big fan of outreach. I'm doing it myself and everything. Um there it's like much harder to get into the inbox of um a recipient, you know, like deliverability, spam and everything. With regard to LinkedIn outreach, it's also becoming tougher. I remember the times when you could send 100 connections per day. Now it's 100 connections per week and it's getting tougher >> with the uh cold calling. There is a new I don't know like if you've heard about the new functionality when the like with the new iPhones you will be able to see if it's like a spammer uh or not. So it's becoming a little bit harder to get through the no to to get through the noise. And do you think that like I don't know companies will say okay we don't want to invest into the SDR teams anymore. We're going to have a couple of AI agents to run on the background but we're going to invest more into ABM into I don't know like more events offline or any other communities or any other channel channels rather than SDRs and like the position of an SDR will just vanish. Yeah, it's a very fair counterpoint. And the one the one thing I'd say to that though is we've seen we've now seen this kind of the data set of companies that removed their human BDR team and implemented AISDRs and the consequence of that has been uh their email domain being blacklisted that reply rates have plummeted and that actually pipeline build has vanished because the assumption is going to be that other functions were going to pick up the slack around pipeline build and it hasn't occurred. So, I've heard about it in the last month, no last two weeks, sorry, I've heard about three companies that are now rebuilding their BDR team um after getting rid of it all six months ago because they've seen this this dip in in pipeline build. So, what does that tell me? That tells me that yes, it is getting a lot harder to engage with people and to get through the noise of generic uh email. Um there are ways around as you said about the um the um uh email iOS showing calls being classed as spam. there are ways of of and technology that's out there to try and give a bit more context to people when they're being called um which would help but really you're you're trying to get people's attention and if you send cold outreach you're you're not in a position to dictate their attention. It's when they're ready. But it could be something that's important, but >> because they've not really had the human talk to them about the pain that they're suffering or the consequence of the pain, >> their attention is like, "Yeah, I'll do that later." So, you're trying to bring it to the forefront for people. Um, and get make them feel like, "Yeah, that is actually something that is that is an itch. I can't scratch. I have to talk to you about this." So >> I think it's AI is going to help enrich information and give more more context but really you still need to have people to deliver that. >> Okay. And speaking about the uh uh teams SDRs, how does a contemporary modern sustainable scalable SDR team look like? >> Yeah. So there's a really interesting stat from last year where I'm putting the SDR function into this bucket that 70% of sellers time is spent on admin tasks. So not revenue generating tasks. So that is list build. putting stuff into Salesforce um researching and what we need to do as as a function is go right how can we automate those pieces where we don't have the BDRs doing any account research any account assignment any um anything that uses up that time so that then we're giving more time back to our sellers to actually execute the job. Now what the knock on effect will be of that is we hire the the times of like having a two like having a lot of STRs um like a one one ratio or 2:1 ratio will leave or end and we'll reduce the size of teams because there's a redundancy been factored in because we know that can do a lot of admin so they're not going to have a lot of time to to do stuff. Like if we give them back more time, it means that they'll produce more and >> that means then that we don't really need two people to do one person's job. Um so we're going to see a leaner uh SDR to BDR team um because of that technology piece coming in place. So the my the the dream scenario is that you start work at 8:30 9:00 a.m. and you look at your sales engagement platform and these are these are the 50 people that I'm going to engage with today and this is the reasons why >> and then you execute everything else has been done on the back end. >> Mhm. And like when you scale the teams and when you organize the teams do you uh organize or segment them by the market by the position um what are the key elements? Yeah, you have to do the segmentation piece. Um because again, if you think about path of least resistance, if you've got working on enterprise companies like let's say over 500 million euros and then you have companies that are less than 500 million and the probability is that you'll book more in that lower segment because it's easier. there's less people to engage with then if it would be with a higher uh higher revenue count but those smaller accounts it might not generate the revenue that's needed to hit goals. So you have to have a segmentation of people focusing on one piece on one piece on one segment because again you don't want a BDR to be calling 200 people in a in engage 200 people in a day and then have 10 um verticals that they're trying to focus on. So that means you have to memorize 10 pains and implications of pains and how we can help and then you have the personas and the different levels about what they care about. So you're suddenly building up the amount of PE things that you're trying to understand in your head. It should be very clear, right? I'm going to be working only on finance for over X00 million of revenue. Uh and these are the things that I need to be become an expert in. >> Mhm. And um you also recently like I want to talk a little bit about the KPIs and the capabilities of the SDR teams like how many contact points can they make but before we go here also a statement you have made that SDR compensation plans should be based on pipeline generation. >> Can you elaborate like why and what are the key KPIs or at least like indicators metrics should be for the SDR teams? >> Yeah. Um, if we're thinking that the SDR function is going to be a tight pipeline for talent for a business, we need the we need the teams to start thinking as if they're internal aes and by doing by changing to a pipeline metric versus a a number metric of meetings so to say is that you're not thinking about volume, you're thinking about quality. >> Mhm. And so we implemented this uh a former company of ours a pipeline number and it was solving a few things. It was solving the pipeline gap that we were having around new logos um that we wanted to try and generate to help out uh to show our board that we were scaling and a new logo pipeline dollar is worth more than an existing customer. But also as well, we put in a lot of um a lot of um inspection into all those points because we didn't want just a an AE who's a friend of a a BDR to say, "Yeah, put in half a million." Like, "No, that's fraud. We don't want that." So, we really made sure that the qualification criteria was tight. It was a named account. The qualifi qualification criteria is tight. And then the the pipeline value that went in it had to be a quote in the system and it had to be approved by the sales manager and that could be like a minimum amount like it's not going to get any less than this just so we have an indication of of of what the size was and we made this change and we went from uh the BDR team in AMIA contributed about 8% of total revenue from uh from our team to when I left we were we were forecast to do about 27% of pipeline that has been derived from the BDR team revenue being derived from the BDR team. >> So it's a it's a culture switch from leaders thinking about volume and yeah we booked 100 meetings okay great but how many of those are really turning into opportunities and pipeline into revenue. >> Mhm. But like how does it work uh just for me like as a person who's also building the pipeline and everything how does it work in reality so let's say an SDR gets a very um sophisticated or detailed ICP and um like how does he work does an a leader help him to identify where he can find this kind of uh leads well in reality you know >> yeah so what we looked at so he was a named account model so there was only certain accounts that the person was going with. Uh and then also what we looked at was average deal size from the previous year and then and then created a quot based on the performance of the AE from the previous year. Um and then and then had that as kind of their quot number. Um so we made sure that each number was individual because um in Middle East the quot the the pipeline generation was huge compared to what it was in France. Um so we made we we made sure that the quotota was reflected that. Um >> and then yeah because it was named accounts as well it was priorities for the business. we it meant that all those accounts those named accounts had account plans attached to them about why we're going after these accounts. Um so it was really trying to create greater visibility within the business about what our real pipeline >> was. Um and then also >> uh to help cover the gap that we were facing but and it was also uh then that trickle down effect. So, we weren't sandbagging deals and suddenly, oh, a million-dollar deal comes in at the last day of the quarter. Well done. Like, no, we we know that we have a million-doll deal that's expected to come in on the 13th of August and these are the steps that have been being faced and followed. >> Okay. What are the key mistakes uh usually the SDR or or the sales leaders make when they create form um the SDR teams? They concentrate too much on inputs, on the amount of num, amount of dials, amount of emails. Um, we're in 2025 now where volume doesn't work and it hasn't worked for about five six years anyway. And we need we need leaders to think about outcomes and what the outputs that the team the outputs that the team are doing. So in terms of named account meetings boxed in terms of named account pipeline generated in terms of pipeline contribution uh to the overall number if the team isn't performing then yes you do have a baseline metrics that you're saying like hey if you to get x you need to have done all of these things in the back but really we want teams to be thinking more strategically and focus on on the priorities of the business. So it's really important to start off with okay this is our goal this is the contribution that the BDR BDR team is going to provide and then measure that. >> Mhm. But like this is a switch from the volume to the quality. >> How do sales leaders perceive it? >> Uh it's tough. It's tough for them to uh to change because the the sales function has changed as well. So medic sales methodologies like that playbook companies they've really created a more scientific way of of selling. It's no longer you go to the golf course, you play a round of golf and you get a deal at the end of it. There's 12 stakeholders involved in an enterprise level deal on average. Um you need to map that out. need to understand who is really your internal champion, who is holding the budget, who's the detractor, who's going to be saying no when maybe they have no influence or power. You need to really start to map that out. So sales has evolved, but also the BDR function has evolved. Um, too many people watch the wall of Wall Street and other 1980s or 1990s films about having loads of people on the phone hitting the making 100 dials, but people have become more sophisticated. So and and the BR SDR function has as well. So we really need to make sure that we're educating leaders about this is the reality. It has changed. Um you need to change it a bit. >> Yeah. You have to get through the noise and to get through the noise you have to be creative. You have to be uh on top of like the B you the uh value proposition the person you have and everything. Okay. And like is there a difference uh between the SDR approach and building the SDR teams in Europe and in the US? >> Yes. So buyers in Europe are a lot more sophisticated. Um they there's different cultural pieces around how to engage with people. There's also more privacy rules with GDPR. Um in in in America you there is there is still privacy concerns. um you're still combating how to get through the noise, but it's really the difference is the more cultural side of Europe um and and how to communicate with people um let's say in Germany people want to hear you speak high German and have a high German accent and if they hear a like me if I was if I was able to speak German I would speak in an English accent they would know and they wouldn't respect me. Um, so you you have to there's these kind of things that you have to take into account. >> Mhm. Okay. Maybe one of the last questions. If you could give heads of sales one advice on how to build their SDR teams, what would it be? >> B it out. Don't just go, I'm going to hire a bunch of people and buy a bunch of technology and see what happens. You need to have a strategy in place about how what's the impact that you want from this team, the contribution of revenue you want from this team, the cost per lead that you're trying to achieve, and then you can start to build out the fortune in terms of what's the technology that we need as infrastructure, then what are the people that we need to help deliver that. So, it's building a strategy, building a plan that's critical. But when do the teams uh what is maybe the size of the company or the sales team when you should say okay you need a separate SDR team. >> Yeah great question. It's so if you're a if you're founderled sales the the and then you've gone from zero to one then you want to be hiring an AE and then having that kind of AE doing a full cycle. It's when you start to get to about it then becomes >> pieces around okay what is our inbound volume that's coming um can we work on that um and then if we go from one to five or one to 10 and we've hired maybe two or three AES we want them to be focusing on the execution of closing deals so then it's that's when you really want to start bringing in a a BDR and even then when you bring in that that BDR SDR you want that person to be senior. You want them to have done the job previously. You don't want a new person because it you're wanting them to be successful. Your kind of second or third hire would be then a more junior person that you can then train. >> Mhm. But like what should be the ratio? So let's say one AE for how many uh SDRs? maximum two uh sorry minimum uh yeah minimum no maximum to 2:1 ratio BDR to AE um you don't need one really unless it's like tippy top enterprise um you also shouldn't have five BDRs working with two AES that's just too many people so you can reduce the reduce the um alignment by bringing the technology piece Okay. So the last question and it's like the signature question I ask in the end. One bold prediction for the future of SDR teams. um we will see less less uh entry level STRs joining directly from from school and university and there'll be more graduate schemes coming in place where talent will come in and experience different functions within the business first um and then after that a period of time when they've done different rotations then a decision will be made on do they want to move to sales or marketing or customer success and then they'll become an SDR and then with that change that graduate will have understood the full breadth of the business and understand what why this is such an important role and they'll generate more pipeline and revenue because of that versus coming in and going uh what do I do >> and concentrate on number yeah that that's what I see is going to happen over the next few Okay, sounds great and exciting. Thank you very much for coming to the podcast today and I do hope to meet you in person when there's uh SDR leaders meet up there somewhere in Belgium. I'm happy to help you organize it and to uh to attract more SDL leaders. Thanks again and uh please follow David on LinkedIn for more tips how to grow the greatest teams. Bye.
